all right hi Randy Lencioni here w and
LNG calm and I wanted to talk about
something that I get asked about a lot
and that is how do you apply the modes
and what other modes very briefly modes
or scales built on thirds and harmony of
the major scale for example you have an
F call F scale week want to call that
one the G is to the a is three the B
flat is for c is five d is six and e is
seven each one of those have as a chord
built on it and thirds without getting
too involved in after this quick little
lesson I'm going to stick to one of the
modes each one is a name by the way the
sixth degree is called the Aeolian mode
um people how do you play the a modes
how do you apply them well once you know
the major scale the parent scale if you
can play that up and down the neck in
all different positions in all different
type forms and I learned it from the
Berkeley School method if you get
Berkeley book two in the front you'll
show you all the all the major
fingerings for the major scale once you
have that under your belt you can play
all the other modes it's built writing
I'm going to do an example
you a song from who is the group who's a
group my cameraman who's the group we
just did ufl the UFO the progression
goes like this sauce in D minor one see
the back d minor
they're right that to me is an Aeolian
mode it outlines the typical alien
progression not will play an F scale
around the D minor right sounds very
major if I play an F scale starting from
D using the F scale nothing else
all right now we have a holy totally
different sound using the scale now I
built the Houston upscale
that's built right into here in the
fifth position it's built around it like
sort of D minor chord but it's built
around this F which is basically ranked
around the C C chord form and I move
that up this way with the rout is on
your pinky now once you learn this you
all pattern here's your typical pattern
I hope you really really play fit and I
take two strings at a time and bouncing
back from one to another and just using
the upscale and I'm thinking about this
progression
you
always come back to that major scale
that major sounding but I'm starting
from D minor and basically all the modes
are like that so if you contact me
through the website i'll send you a
little something that a little scale
actually it's a mode lesson i call it
molds 101 and i will send that to you
and as an email attachment and once
again looks with you the next time and
we're going to do some more stuff
you